1. The way you solved a problem in the project.
2. Your role in the project.
3. Your imagination or creativeness in the concept of the project.


1. The way you solved a problem in the project.




problem:-

How to use available data on the YOU-TUBE rather than creating your own data and managing the data inside our desktop based appliaction?   

solution:-

Basically, I have created a search engine on my Desktop based application users can  search any kind of detail between a given time period on it. Here in this project we are dealing with the youtube’s data by using the Official Youtube API Key provided by google Devlopers. And Store the data in our database and fetch it from our database in well sorted order.



PYTHON:-

I prefer Python because we can handle frontend and backend both simultaniously with python and besides web and software development, Python is used for data analytics, machine learning, and even design. 	 

SQL:-
I have used SQL because my data is having a predefined schema i.e in structured format. And here we also implemented Tkinter in our Frontend which is a Python binding to the Tk GUI toolkit. It is the standard python interfaces to the Tk GUI toolkit, with this also able to implement sqlite3 successfully in our backend.  


WP Rest API + youtube api
  
The WordPress REST API provides an interface for applications to interact with your WordPress site by sending and receiving data as JSON (JavaScript Object Notation) objects. 





2. Your role in the project.
Answer

My role is software devloper.
I have created this project as incremental model of SDLC(software devlopment life cycle).
My work in the project was to know the 
A.requirements:- Search engine depending upon the date. Data display and data managment page.


B.Design & development:-
Module 1 Search Page:- On this page I have created a search bar as my search engine, drop down button to select the perticular item among search list and a search button to search for selected item in the list. After pressing search button our screen render to second page.

Module 2 Display and data managment page:-
On this page we are displaying the data fetched by the API from client server in the first module and we have 7 buttons to do 7 kind of manipulation in the data which are ADD-NEW, Display, clear, Delete, Search, Sorting, Exit buttons.

C.Testing 
i have done many kinds of testing like  Performance Testing, System Testing, Alpha Testing,  Beta Testing etc to approve check my project validity.
 
D.Implementaion:-
when I found any Bugs after testing phase then I am correcting those in Implementation phase.

incremantal model
A. Requirements
B. Design & development
C. Testing
D. Implementation

Increment this 4 steps until our project is completed 

  
3. Your imagination or creativeness in the concept of the project.
Here we are taking already existing data rather than creating our own data.
Using only Python for backend and front end devlopment makes a software easier to built.   















